Docs: User Directory (#11728)
directus/directus: docs/app/user-directory.md

> [Users](/getting-started/glossary#users) are the individual accounts for logging in to the App. Each user belongs to a
> [Role](/getting-started/glossary#roles) which defines its [Permissions](/getting-started/glossary#permissions). The
> User Directory is the management system for all Users within a Project.

![User Directory Page](https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/app-guide/user-directory/user-directory-20220222A/user-directory-20220222A.webp)

[[toc]]

## How it Works

This module is a management system that enables one to View, Invite, Create, Edit, and Delete Users. In order to
understand and use this module effectively, you will need to understand
[Users, Roles, and Permissions](/configuration/users-roles-permissions.md).

## Access Permissions

> The permissions configured for your Role will determine what you can see and do inside the User Directory.
> Administrators have full permissions. By default, Public has no access permissions _(to anything)_ and other _User_
> Roles have limited access permissions. These permissions can be fully configured in **Settings > Roles & Permissions**
> with all but one exception... A User must at the very least have read permissions for itself on the Directus Users
> Collection, so that is actually hard-wired and unchangeable in every new Role created. By default, new Roles also allow
> Users to Edit their own information, but this can be reconfigured.

Reviewer: This only applies to roles with _App Access_ enabled. "regular" roles have no hardwired rules at all 👍🏻 

Maybe we can make it something like:

```suggestion
The permissions configured for your Role will determine what you can see and do inside the User Directory.
Administrators have full permissions. By default, Public has no access permissions _(to anything)_ and other _User_
Roles have access permissions based on their role. These permissions can be fully configured in **Settings > Roles & Permissions**. Roles with _App Access_ enabled have some limited permissions enabled by default, including the ability for users of that role to view their own user data. By default, new Roles created with App Access enabled also allow Users to Edit their own information, but this can be reconfigured at will.
```

(needs some copy writing magic)

Author: <img width="1728" alt="Screen Shot 2022-03-08 at 2 04 51 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/62306630/157317244-480defe6-7531-4198-8ae2-05d10f6c2177.png">

I was trying to address this issue above, but I think the whole topic needs to be addressed in the config docs.
I'm taking ur copy, slashing to less info and will address all this in the config docs.

Author: @rijkvanzanten Here is what I changed it to. With the plan to go deep in the corresponding config doc.

```suggestion
The permissions configured for your Role will determine what you can see and do inside the User Directory. Roles with
_Admin Access_ enabled are created with full Permissions. Roles with _App Access_ enabled are created with some limited
Permissions configured by default. Roles that have neither _Admin_ nor _App Access_ enabled (such as the built-in
_Public_ Role) are created with no access permissions _(to anything)_ by default. Default permissions can be fully
configured in **Settings > Roles & Permissions**.
```

- **Description** – A freeform text description.
- **Tags** – Keywords for search-ability.

### User Preferences

![User Preferences](https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/app-guide/user-directory/user-directory-20220222A/user-preferences-20220222A.webp)

- **Language** – The preferred App language/locale.
- **Theme** – Light or Dark mode (or based on system preferences).
- **Multi-Factor Authentication** – Configuration for MFA.
- **Email Notifications** – Receive emails for notifications.

### Admin Options

![Admin Options](https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/app-guide/user-directory/user-directory-20220222A/admin-options-20220222A.webp)

- **Status** – Set User status Draft, Invited, Active, Suspended, Archived.
- **Role** – Defines the User's Role.
- **Token** – Accepts any string as user access token. At least 19-20 characters recommended, but we give you the tools
  and flexibility to set this according to you own internal security policies.
- **Provider** – _read-only:_ SSO provider associated with user. See our built-in [SSO options](/configuration/sso).
- **External Identifier** – Displays external identifier generated by SSO provider.

### Read-only Info

> ![User Profile Sidebar Information](https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/app-guide/user-directory/user-directory-20220222A/user-profile-sidebar-information-20220222A.webp)

Reviewer: This screenshot doesn't actually show the timestamp as it should. Is it broken, or has the user you screenshotted simply not used the platform?

Author: <img width="1413" alt="Screen Shot 2022-03-08 at 2 45 34 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/62306630/157322115-a1836d5c-2d52-4dc1-bf12-12f732d954e5.png">

This is my account, which I am currently logged in to. (I hijacked Ben's avatar for some doc pics).
I just checked every single user and NONE of them display a timestamp on "Last Access".

Seems like a bug? 🤔 Want me to report it?

Information in the Sidebar _(denoted by <span mi icon dark>info</span> when Sidebar is minimized)_ also includes the
following read-only details:

- **User Key** – The primary key of the user.
- **Last Page** – The last App page accessed by the user.
- **Last Access** – The timestamp of the user's last App or API action.

## Extensibility Options

Directus Core is completely open-source, modular and extensible. Extensions allow you to expand or modify any part of
Directus to fit your needs. Here are some great resources to get started down that track.

- [Extensions > Introduction](/extensions/introduction/)
- [Extensions > Creating Extensions](/extensions/creating-extensions/)
- [Contributing > Introduction](/contributing/introduction/)
- [Contributing > Codebase Overview](/contributing/codebase-overview/)

::: tip Accelerated Development

> Working on an enterprise project and looking to outsource or financially sponsor the development of a Shares extension?

Reviewer: This feels a little odd in the context of the current page. Is this intended to be here, or is it a copy/paste error?

Author: I sliced it out. I would like to say that these are totally customizable and pick something out on every page that could be customized with an "Accelerated Development" plug, but I agree that perhaps is too forced as-is.
